What is Devops
Devops is an abbreviation gotten from the word "development" and "operation" 
The term DevOps is coined from  the words ``development" and "operations." 
It is a software development strategy which bridges the gap between the development and operations team of an organization. 
Devops is used to ensure that the development and operations part of  an organization are synchronized so as to ensure that the organization is functioning well. 
Now it is good to know that devops itself is not a tool, neither is it a technology. 
It is a set of practices that an organization adopts to ensure collaboration,communication, automation, and efficiency between the development and the operation team.  
So now that you know the meaning of devops what is the main goal?  

The main goal of Devops 
The main goal of devops is to ensure that both the development and operations 
team can work together to automate and streamline the process of building, testing and deploying a software. 
Devops bridges the gap between development team and operation team and ensure that both teams can work together, 
basically devops aims to shorten the software development lifecycle while still also delivering features and updates regularly.

Phases involved in Devops Lifecycle 
There are a lot of phases in devops and there are also a lot of tools used for each phase. 
In this section you are going to learn about the phases involved in devops and the tools used for each phase. 

Planning: This is the first phase  in devops and In this phase the Devops team gathers the requirements needed for the development of the software. 
This phase involves the Devops team defining and describing the ability of the software they intend on building. 
The devops team also maps out the processes which are going to be used to get the required result. 
Once planning is done then the team can start writing the code. The vision of the project is usually defined during this phase.

Develop: This is the next step after the planning phase has been successful. 
This phase is usually the second phase and In this phase, the developer writes the code needed for the development of the software. 
There are usually multiple developers writing the code for the software and each one of them works 
together to ensure the smooth and efficient development of software.Tools used in this phase includes Git, Github, Jira e.t.c.
In this phase, DevOps teams do the following tasks:
They choose the development environment they want to use. 
They also chose the language they want to use to build the software.
Write, review and design the software.

Build: This phase comes right after the develop phase and in this, the team compiles and assembles the source code into executable units, 
units that can be released into a production environment.The build phase can sometimes be merged with the develop phase for a faster 
workflow and to also avoid too much stress but it is good to know that (both phases are two different phases) 
they aren't the same phase the build phase is totally different from the develop phase. Tools used in this phase includes: Jenkins, CircleCl,Gitlab e.t.c. 

Test: This comes after the development team has built the software. 
This phase involves the team testing out the software in order to see if it meets the requirement that was mapped out in the planning phase. 
This phase is a critical phase in devops because it helps the team to validate the performance and functionality of the software that was built. 
The team checks if the software is working fine and if there are any errors that need to be rectified. 
In this phase the developed software is continuously tested for bugs and error.  Tools used in this phase includes: Selenium, test NJ, J unit e.t.c 

Deploy: In this phase, the software built is released to a production environment for end users to use it. 
This phase is usually done via continuous delivery (CD) (so that the software built can be readily released easily and quickly) 
so that any changes made to the software by the devops team can be released to the production environment in an automated manner. 
The team automates delivery so as to make the software scalable and readily available, this way the software can be delivered frequently with ease. 
Tools used in this phase includes infrastructure as code (IaC), containers, Puppet, chef, Saltstack, Ansible e.t.c. 

Monitor: This phase is a very crucial  phase in devops which is aimed at improving the quality of the software developed 
by monitoring its performance This phase involves observation and continuous feedback. 
This phase helps the devops team quickly identify and solve issues so as to avoid downtime that affects customers.
During this phase, the devops team collects, and analyzes data from the already released software to see if the software 
is working as intended and generates reports to improve it if there is any issue. Tools used in this phase includes: ELT Stack, Splunk, Nagios e.t.c

Devops Tools 
There are various tools used in devops that help increase the efficiency of DevOps processes, 
and these tools are chosen based on what the devops team wants to build and based on how comfortable they are with each tool. Devops tools includes:
Git: Git is an open source version control tool used to track changes in a project. 
Git is used to ensure that various developers can work separately on the software being built without affecting the other. 
This tool helps members of the team to collaborate on projects and update existing ones.For more information on Git check   
Docker: Docker is used for containerizing applications—the process of turning an application into a single package of software.
Jenkins: Jenkins is a tool used to build CI/CD pipelines, where developers can build, test, and deploy software.
Kubernetes: A container organizer, Kubernetes is used frequently in DevOps.
Other tools includes: Saltstack, Chef, Puppet, Splunk e.t.c  
Each tool mentioned above has its special functionality and phases they are used in.

Conclusion
DevOps is an increasingly popular methodology that aims to connect developers and operators together, 
It's uniquely differentiated from traditional IT operations. 
With everything that devops entails it can be overwhelming at first With all the various practices and solutions available. 
While adopting DevOps practices, automates and optimizes processes through technology, 
it all starts with the culture inside the organization and the people who play a part in it. 
The teams bring DevOps to life by implementing certain practices throughout the application lifecycle. 
Some of these practices help accelerate, automate, and improve a specific phase. 

